# Introduction to Statistics and Its Applications

Welcome to the course on statistics. In this course, we will learn about
statistics and how it can be applied in machine learning and data
science. However, statistics is not limited to these fields; it has
numerous applications across different domains. In this video, we will
discuss what statistics is and its applications.

**Statistics** is a field that deals with the collection, organization,
analysis, interpretation, and presentation of data.

## Purpose of Statistics

One very important thing to understand is why we perform these tasks.
Why do we collect, organize, analyze, interpret, and present data in the
form of graphs to stakeholders? Ultimately, the goal is to make informed
decisions. When we have data, it is crucial because it allows us to
observe behaviors, such as customer behavior, and identify important
factors. Based on this, if we make effective decisions, the business
will be profitable. Thus, we use statistical tools to make decisions
based on data.

### Example: Age Feature in Online Shopping

Consider an age feature representing the ages of customers interested in
online shopping. Suppose we have data points like 24, 27, 14, 13, 28,
29, 31, and 32. With this information, we might want to decide to whom
we should target promotional offers and how to target them. Using
statistics, we can calculate important measures such as the mean and
median of the age, and analyze the distribution of ages. Various
distributions exist, such as Gaussian, normal, standard normal, and
log-normal distributions, which we will explore in further examples.

## Statistical Analysis and Visualization

Using statistical techniques, we can analyze the data and create
visualizations such as histograms, probability density functions (PDF),
and cumulative density functions (CDF). For example, a histogram
represents the frequency distribution of data as vertical bars.
Smoothing the histogram can produce a PDF, which helps us understand the
underlying distribution of the data. These tools help us understand the
data better and make informed decisions.

## The Goal: Understanding Data to Make Decisions

The final goal of statistics is to understand data and make decisions
that help grow your business. By analyzing and presenting data
effectively, stakeholders can make informed choices.

### Application Example: Banking ATM Location Decision

Let's consider a practical application of statistics in banking. Suppose
there is an ATM at location A. The bank is considering opening another
ATM at location B, which is about five kilometers away from location A.
The bank wants to determine whether opening an ATM at location B will
improve service efficiency.

At location A, many people perform transactions and withdraw money. For
the new ATM at location B to be viable, there must be sufficient traffic
and demand. The bank will analyze data such as the mean number of
transactions per month and operational costs like electricity bills.
Based on this data, they will decide whether opening an ATM at location
B is beneficial. This decision-making process based on data is an
example of statistical decision-making.

### Data Analysis for Decision Making

The bank will analyze past transaction data from location A, organize
it, and present it to stakeholders using charts and graphs. By reviewing
these visualizations, they can decide whether to open the new ATM at
location B.

## Who Uses Statistics?

Statistics is used by everyone in various domains and everyday life.
Some key users include:

-   Machine learning practitioners
-   Data scientists
-   Data analysts
-   Business intelligence developers and business analysts
-   Risk analysts
-   Even individuals in daily life, such as housewives or parents

Statistics is pervasive and applied across many fields and roles.

### Example: COVID-19 Vaccination Safety

A relevant example is the COVID-19 vaccination process. To determine if
the vaccine is safe, researchers selected samples of people and
conducted trials. They performed statistical analysis on the results to
conclude whether the vaccination is safe for public use. This is another
example of how statistics is extensively used in experiments and
decision-making processes.

## Conclusion and Next Steps

This was the introductory topic on statistics and its applications. Many
terms and concepts were introduced, which will be explored in depth in
subsequent lectures. Follow along with the examples and try to apply
these concepts in your own domain. In the next session, we will discuss
many more topics related to statistics.

## Key Takeaways

-   Statistics is the field that deals with the collection,
    organization, analysis, interpretation, and presentation of data.
-   The primary goal of statistics is to understand data and make
    informed decisions that can drive business growth.
-   Statistical tools help analyze data features such as mean, median,
    and distributions, and visualize them through charts like
    histograms, PDFs, and CDFs.
-   Statistics is widely applied across various domains including
    banking, machine learning, data science, business analytics, and
    even public health for vaccine safety evaluation.
